---
title: "Six ideas to upgrade your home on budget"
layout: default
modal-id: 3
date: 2023-11-01
img: lifestyle.jpg
thumbnail: lifestyle.jpg
alt: budget
project-date: November 2023
category: Lifestyle
---

Let’s be honest. When we talk about home renovations, for a lot of people it means time and money, but it doesn’t need to be that way. Here are some tips that will help you to elevate your place. All you need is creativity and a small budget.

**1.Decor your walls with different elements**

We all have an artist inside and a way to let it out is changing the walls of our homes. If you are not a risk-taker, try with a peel and stick wallpaper. It’s easy to install and remove without damaging the surfaces, and there are thousands of designs that will give a new air to any room. What about a floral pattern for your kitchen or some geometric forms for your bathroom?

If you prefer a more personal style, create a gallery with photos of your family, your children’s drawings or any other thing that is special to you. Print at least six pictures and organize them in two columns. Then, buy some wood, shape the frame and paint it with acrylics in a colour that contrasts with your walls. You can use other objects such as plates, baskets or artificial flowers.

**2.The smallest objects at home matter**

Door handles and light switch plates are the kind of objects that we use daily, but pass unnoticed. To boost them, use the same acrylics you use before or a spray can to paint them with accent colours. For example, if your house is mainly white or beige, use lime green, dusty pink or dark blue.

You can also create some frames for the plates as you did before with the walls, just use the same accent colour to keep a consistent style.

**3.Create brighter rooms**

Don’t wait until next Christmas to use the lights you put on the tree. Rather, distribute them in three jars of different sizes to illuminate your bedroom. Another choice is to create a curtain; hang the lights to the wall and hold them with some brackets or hooks. After that, you can enjoy a movie in a warm and cozy environment. Not a bad idea, right?

**4.A second chance for your food containers**

It’s time to make alive again the food containers that you no longer use. What if you take one of them to keep rubber bands, bread tags, and twist ties. You never know when you need some of them. Also, you can use three of the largest jars you have to store food you buy in bulk such as oatmeal, grains and flour.

The kitchen is not the only place to reuse your containers. You can transform them to keep your makeup remover, cotton balls, creams, and in general your personal care items. Give them personality with ribbons of fabric scraps from clothes you don’t wear.

**5.Indoor plants to refresh your place**

Plants are life. Having some of them at home produces an indoor garden vibe. Buy at least two of different features. What about a Persian shield with a jade plant? Set them in a corner of your living room and don’t forget to water them. If you prefer, hang them from the ceiling with some hooks. In that case consider a string of pearls plants.

**6.Candles, the cherry on top**

Candles are those kinds of decorations that give a finishing touch to any space of your place. They come in different sizes and colours, so that they are easy to match with other accessories. Have you ever imagined some of them with quirky shapes?

Lunawix is a brand of soy-based and hand-poured candles with unusual shapes such as mushrooms, torsos or cakes. The idea behind these candles is to encourage others to express their own style at home, have fun, and be whimsical. If you want to know more about her brand, click here www.instagram/lunawix
